
The episosde begins with Ash and Pikachu on a rock formation on the water's 
edge, psyching themselves up for the Hoenn League. The rest of the gang are 
watching the two, with the usual commentary. Then out of nowhere, Drew with 
his Masquerain appear on another rock formation, just as a huge wave comes 
in. Brock tries to warn Drew, but Drew orders a Silver Wind, and Masquerian 
launches the attack on the wave, breaking it up before it hits. Everyone's 
impressed with the power of the attack.

The group meets up with Drew to remark on the attack. Drew remarks its 
nothing, as he's getting ready for the Grand Festival. Drew asks about May's 
collection of ribbons, and May shows him her four ribbons. Drew then shows 
May his five ribbons, the number needed to get in the Grand Festival. Drew 
tells May that the Grand Festival is only a month and a half away, and May 
still needs one more ribbon.  May and Drew are then facing off against each 
other with Beautifly and Masquerain, while Ash is playing referee for the 
match. They start battling, but Team Rocket interrupts when they crash 
ashore with their Magikarp sub. TR says a few lines of their motto, then 
turns on a vacuum to suck Pikachu into the sub. Unfortunately, the vacuum is 
too strong, that it sucks everyone on the beach. The group ends up into the 
control room(the room where TR pedals to power the sub) and onto TR. 
Wobbuffet pops out and startles Max, which causes Max to bit a button on the 
wall, activating some powerful jets that sends the sub blasting into the 
water. The sub hits a whirlpool, which then explodes and sends everyone 
flying and scattered over an island surrounded by mists.

Team Rocket is the first to recover from their fall. They find out that 
Wobbuffet is missing(accompanied by some imitations of Wobbuffet by James 
and Meowth).

Elsewhere on the island, Ash, Brock, Max, and Pikachu get themselves 
together. Seems May and Drew are missing, so they strive to search the 
island for them.

May and Drew are at the island's edge, watching the whirlpools that surround 
the island. Then out of nowhere, a motorboat with an old man piloting it 
comes through the mists. The old man comes up to the two and explains to 
them they are on Mirage Island. Drew is astounded, and May ask why. Drew 
explains that the rare Liechi Berry grows on this island, and it's a good 
berry for Pokeblocks. The old man say's he'll lend his assistance on finding 
their friends.

Back to Ash's group, Brock is finding out that his compass is no good, as 
the needle is pointing everywhere and not stopping. Swellow flys to the 
group, shaking it's head as it has not found May. Ash and Brock decide to 
use a different tactic, using Corphish and Mudkip.

As for Team Rocket, Jessie is frustrated that she can't find Wobbuffet, 
until she hears a soft cry from a Wynaut. Thinking it's from Wobbuffet, she 
follows the sound.

As for Drew and May, that are listening to the old man's tale on how he 
found the island as a young man, while standing on a river's edge. Drew then 
spots a plant with the rare berries. He and May both run up to the plant, 
but the edge is unstable, and both of them fall. The old man calls out his 
Bellspout and commands it to use Vine Whip to rescue them. May grabs on to 
the Vine Whip, then Drew, but she can't hold on. They both fall in the 
river, and down a waterfall, which knocks Drew out. As May struggles to keep 
Drew's head out of the water, a bunch of Wynauts come to their rescue.

Ash's group find themselves at the waterfall, with the old man calling out 
to them. The old man explains the situation. Now the group knows they have 
to follow the river.

Drew wakes up to find himself in a cave with May and a bunch of Wynauts, 
with the May explaining how the Wynauts rescued them. A Wynaut walks up to 
them with a couple of Liechi Berries. Both coordinators take one and bite 
into them. They are surprised by the taste, as it is first pleasent, then 
quite spicy.

It is now nighttime, and Team Rocket has not located Wobbuffet. However, 
Wobbuffet has appeared, eating a bunch of Liechi berries. Team Rockets ask 
where Wobbuffet got the berries and Wobbuffet points. Team Rocket rushes off 
to get their prize.

Back in the cave, May has apparently decided to wait it out by playing with 
the Wynaut along with her Pokemon.

Team Rocket has now found the Liechi berries, and pick one to eat. They soon 
discover how it tastes. Meowth claims that despite the taste, these berries 
are very rare, and that they would make good Pokeblocks.

May is still playing with the Wynauts, when suddenly the group hears a 
vacuum. It's Team Rocket in a Wobbuffet balloon, with a vacuum attachment to 
suck up the berries. However May gets sucked up as well. The balloon floats 
away to get away from Drew, but Drew with the help of the Wynauts manage to 
follow.

As Team Rocket sucks up all the berries on the island, May stuggles in her 
bonds as TR has tied her and hung her on a tree branch. She can't reach her 
Pokeballs, but then she sees Drew coming to the rescue.

At the cave, the group finds that it's empty. The old man notes that the 
plants here seems to be stripped of berries. Ash remarks it's the work of 
Team Rocket.

Jessie sends in Seviper and orders a Poison Tail. Drew calls out Roselia and 
orders a Magical Leaf. Seviper blocks Roselia's attack with its tail, and 
continues on with its attack. However, a counter by a Wynaut causes Seviper 
to hit itself with its own tail. Drew then orders a Petal Dance, and Jessie 
asks Wobbuffet to block the attack. But it turns out the attack was to free 
May from her bonds. Jessie orders another Poison Tail, but before it can 
attack, Seviper is hit with a Thunderbolt. Ash's group has arrived.

Jessie and James call out for Dustox and Cacnea to even the odds. Dustox 
attacks with Poison Sting, but Drew calls out Masquerain and orders Silver 
Wind to block. James calls out for Pin Missle, and Meowth fires a futuristic 
cannon to power up that attack. But it's blocked by a group of Wynaut 
forming a wall and using Safeguard. Ash tells Pikachu to use Thunder, and 
the attack fries the balloon and separates the attachment containing the 
berries. May and Drew then orders Beautifly and Masquerain to use Silver 
Wind, which blasts Team Rocket into the horizon.

The episode ends with the old man taking the trainers on his boat back to 
the other islands, as well as giving May a present a basket full of Liechi 
berries. 

Thanks To Golden Darkness For Writing this for us

      