
Fresh from winning his first Hoenn badge, Ash and co enter a new town on their way to Dewford Town. May looks at the map, saying Dewford is across the ocean, so they should stock up here before they go. Max is excited and hopes there is a restaurant nearby, and May says there is. They arrive at the restaurant to find it shut down with the doors boarded up. It looks long past condemned. May doesn't get it, as the map says it should be open. 
Max yells at her while she defends herself, saying that is what the map says. She then notices the maps print date and nervously replies that it is out of date. Ash and co scream in agony. Now at the harbor, Ash collapses in hunger. Brock does too and they begin to complain while May angrily stares at her map. Max runs up, saying there is no ferry! They all look out over the ocean to see no boat anywhere. Ash gets depressed, as he is very hungry and has no way of getting to Dewford now. May laughs, saying she isn't the only one who made a mistake, which angers Ash. He yells at her then continues to sulk. Max asks what he plans to do about his match now, and Brock comments that there has to be a boat here somewhere. May offers to find one and walks off.

May walks along the harbor noticing it is in ruins. Windows are busted 
and boats are half sunk. She looks out to sea and thinks about Ash 
yelling at her, which ticks her off. She suddenly notices an old man 
fishing off the dock. She gets excited that there is actually life here. She 
rushes to him and asks if there is a boat around here. The man says 
there hasn't been a ferry service for a while, and he is the only one left 
in the harbor. He gets up and introduces himself as Mr. Briney just as 
a Wingull flies down. Mr. Briney welcomes it back and calls it by the 
name of Peeko. May seems to like it and scans it with her Pokedex. She 
then comments on what a great Pokemon it is, and Mr. Briney laughs, 
saying it is the greatest one of all. 

May bends down and holds out her hand to Peeko, but it gets scared and 
hides behind Mr. Briney. He laughs, telling her that Peeko is shy around strangers. She motions it again and it nervously hops up to her. She 
begins to pet it softly. Mr. Briney laughs again, saying that Peeko really seems to like her. May pulls out some Pokemon food and offers it to 
Peeko, who scarves it down happily. Mr. Briney then asks May what she's 
doing in a dump like this, and she begins to explain how they are 
trying to get to Dewford.

From some rocks off the harbor, Team Rocket spies on May. Jessie 
comments that if May is here then Pikachu can't be too far off. Meowth 
suggests they follow her to find it and then snatch it. They all agree and 
cheer.

Mr. Briney tells May that he owns a small boat and could give them a 
ride to Dewford. May gets very happy and thanks him. Mr. Briney smiles 
and begins to explain to her how back when the town was flourishing, he 
was the best sailor around, and he would sail the seas for days on end. 
May thanks him again and runs off to find Ash and co.

Team Rocket is still sitting on the rocks. James thinks that Peeko must 
be very strong and the others agree. Jessie says it would be a perfect 
addition to their team; as Seviper, Cacnea, Wobbuffet, and   Wurmple 
can't cut it. She then takes out Wurmple and begins to cuddle with it. 
James and Meowth then make plans to catch Peeko while Jessie dances with 
Wurmple in the background.

Mr. Briney continues to fish when a Team Aqua agent spies on him. May 
leads Ash and co towards Mr. Briney's boat house. They ask her why she 
is in such a hurry and she explains that she found the best sailor ever 
to take them to Dewford. She tells them how nice, strong, and cool he 
is as they approach his house.

May greets him, but to her surprise he screams at her. He tells her he 
cannot give them a ride and they should go away. May doesn't 
understand, but never gets to as he slams the door in their faces. Ash and Max 
thank her for getting them the "greatest sailor ever", but she is too 
stunned to care. She looks down at the jar of Pokemon food she was 
planning to give him sadly. 

Mr. Briney closes the curtains as he watches them go. He then turns and 
tells the Team Aqua member that he did as told. He then asks him what 
he wants with him, and the Aqua member says that he needs a boat to take 
him somewhere, and he will do as ordered or he'll never get Peeko back. 
Mr. Briney looks down to see Peeko in a small bird cage. He calls for 
it and begins to approach it, but the Aqua member releases Crawdaunt, 
revealing that this is actually the same Aqua member from the Devon Corp 
building. 

Ash and co are now back on the harbor mopping. Suddenly, Officer Jenny 
pulls up. She steps off her motorcycle and explains to Ash and co that 
the Devon Corp Aqua member escaped and the police have yet to find him, 
but there have been reports that he is in this area looking for a boat. 
Ash and co say they'll look out for him, and Jenny drives off. Hearts 
flutter above Brock's head as he watches her go.

Ash and May are now very confused and Ash asks May if Mr. Briney was 
that mean to her before. She says he was very nice before, which makes 
Max and Brock ponder. They begin to think why the Aqua member would be 
in an abandoned city. They then realize that only one person here has a 
boat, and if the Aqua member somehow got to Mr. Briney, there would be 
no witnesses to stop him!

In Mr. Briney's boat hangar, the Aqua member inspects the boat. He 
tells Mr. Briney to get in, but he refuses. The aqua member then signals 
Crawdaunt, and it threatens to crush Peeko in its claw. Mr. Briney begins 
to listen when he hears Ash banging on his door. The aqua member laughs 
and signals Crawdaunt to take care of them. Max points to the hangar 
and they head toward it. 

Crawdaunt leaps from the hangar with Peeko still in its claws. May 
recognizes it and Ash tells Pikachu that they have to get it back. The Team 
Aqua member steps out and Ash and co instantly recognize him. Ash tells 
Pikachu to attack Crawdaunt and both Pokemon leap at each other. 
Suddenly, bombs fall from the sky, blowing them back. Ash and co look up to 
see Team Rocket in their balloon. They say their motto and Ash asks why 
they are here. They explain that they plan on taking Pikachu, Peeko, 
and maybe even Crawdaunt. The aqua member laughs, calling them pathetic. 
Meowth turns on a vacuum which begins to pull Pikachu in. Crawdaunt 
places a claw in the ground to support itself, but the cage handle holding 
Peeko snaps and it is sucked into the vacuum. 

Mr. Briney calls for it and Brock releases Lotad. He tells it to use 
water gun, and Team Rocket freaks out, but the water gun barely even 
leaves its mouth. Team Rocket begins to laugh, when it suddenly starts a 
huge water gun, striking the balloon, and sending Pikachu and Peeko 
falling. Mr. Briney runs to get his Pokemon, but Crawdaunt grabs it first. 
The aqua member then tells it to get rid of Team Rocket, and it uses 
bubble, popping the balloon and sending them blasting off.
The aqua member and Crawdaunt then leap into the boat and take off. Ash 
and co wonder how they'll catch him now, but Mr. Briney says he knows 
how. He pulls a latch and the water in the hangar drains, revealing a 
Wingull shaped boat. Ash and co are shocked. The water level returns to 
normal and they all get in.

The boat's three engines start up and it speeds after the aqua member's 
boat. Inside, Mr. Briney explains about the day he met Peeko, and how 
it just landed on his head while he was fishing and followed him home. 
He then adds that it was Peeko who inspired this boat, and he has to get 
it back. 

The aqua member gloats at how great of an escape he made when Crawdaunt 
notices the Peeko boat speeding toward them. Mr. Briney demands Peeko 
back on a loud speaker, but the aqua member refuses. Mr. Briney notices 
they are approaching some big rock formations on the monitor, and 
explains that they need to catch up with the boast before then. Ash and 
Pikachu get on top of the boat, but before Pikachu can attack, Crawdaunt 
sends two crab hammers straight for them. Mr. Briney manages to dodge it, 
but Crawdaunt follows up with bubble. A giant wave strikes the boat, 
sending Ash and co flying. When they look back at the other boat, only 
Peeko remains in it. Ash and co look ahead to see the boat is heading 
straight for a giant rock. Ash has Pikachu shock it, which breaks the top 
part of the rock off, but not enough to stop Peeko's boat. Mr. Briney 
steers the Peeko boat to the side and cuts off the other boat just 
enough to make it fly safely over the top of the rock! 
Mr. Briney then dives into the water and retrieves Peeko. Suddenly, a 
giant Team Aqua sub rises from the ocean. Ash and co watch the aqua 
member jump into it and it then sinks, leaving everyone in shock. That 
night at the harbor, May feeds Peeko. Soon, Max and her stomachs growl, 
making Mr. Briney laugh. He says Peeko must be eating better then them. 
May explains about the closed restaurant incident and Mr. Briney tells 
them that he'll give them a feast! They all thank him. The next day, 
everyone boards the Peeko boat and they speed off towards Dewford Town 
and the next badge!


Thanks To GoldenNoctowl For Writing this for us
      