This story Begins Ash and others are heading for the Cinnabar Gym. Ash's path is not easy, he has to fight other trainers along the way. When he was walking along, he comes across a Hiker. This dangerous sends trainer sends out the Fighting Pokemon Rhyhorn! Ash sends Bulbasaur! The Hiker tells his Rhyhorn to use Take Down attack. The ground shakes as it charges right at Ash's little green Pokemon. Pikachu does not like this and puts on a look of desperation on his face. Ash commands his Bulbasaur to use his Leech Seed attack, but it was too late and the skillfully trained Pokemon crashes into him and Bulbasaur goes flying. Ash tries to recall his Bulbasaur and Forfeit the match, but Bulbasaur refuses! Brock states that it will not come back to ash until it wins, it seems that Bulbasaur really wants to battle it! The mean hiker says Ash must be a bad trainer if his own Pokémon do not listen to him and cannot even return it to its Pokéball when told! Before you know it, Rhyhorn is charging again! Bulbasaur uses Razor Leaf, stopping it dead in its tracks, gives it a Vine Whip. Rhyhorn collapses and Ash wins, even though he did nothing! The hiker says Ash has trained his Bulbasaur great! All of a sudden, Ash sees that Bulbasaur cannot get up, and its bulb begins to Grow.
They run Bulbasaur to the nearest Pokémon Center, funny how they always know where one is. Ash tells Nurse Joy to about it and asks her to save it. Nurse Joy hooks up Bulbasaur to some machine; she says that she is now positive. Ash's Pokemon is not sick at all; it is just getting ready to evolve! Brock is not surprised; Bulbasaur is a strong Pokemon his Bulbasaur will evolve into Ivysaur. Ash thinks that's great, but Bulbasaur overhears, and does not seem very happy. Nurse joy tells ash that it will evolve at a special festival for Bulbasaur!
Everyone is asleep at the Pokemon Center and a long line of Bulbasaur goes past. Ash's Bulbasaur gets up and follows them. Pikachu sees this and decides that he will investigate. He wakes up Ash and they decide to follow him!
Jessie and James show up about now. Jessie sees all the beautiful flowers and enjoys them. James disagrees He has allergies and he hates them. Suddenly, they walk right past that big group of Bulbasaur holding Ash's Bulbasaur. Jessie says they should capture them! However, the Bulbasaur all hit them with their vines, and they blast off again.
They are all following Pikachu. Brock says if they follow the trail of pollen, they might find Ash's Bulbasaur! Suddenly, the roots of a bunch of tree start thrashing around. A bunch of vines starts blocking their path to try to stop our Heroes from getting through! Ash says they will not stop, and they dive through them just in time. They were inside the Great Mysterious Garden, the legend was true, Inside are Thousands of Bulbasaur.
Suddenly a Tree starts to open and out comes a Venusaur! It climbs on a big tree stump. Brock says that makes it sound like a plant. They could not find Ash's Bulbasaur when they realize Ash's Bulbasaur has a bandage on its head, they see if quick smart now. Team Rocket cannot get through the wall of vines. James asks Meowth to scratch his way through, and Meowth says he just had his claws filed. Jessie and James get out an axe and a saw. However, the vines attack them, and chase them away. Ash tries to yell out to his Bulbasaur, Brock stops him and reminds him that Humans have never been in this are before! All of the Bulbasaur are happy, but and exception applies to Ash's! All of the bulbs on the backs of these green animals start to GLOW!
The Bulbasaur start to evolve into Ivysaur one by one the strongest ones first! Brock says that people have always disagreed whether Bulbasaur was a plant or animal type He says that maybe Bulbasaur are a symbol that all life on Earth is connected. Ash points out that his Bulbasaur has not evolved! The Venusaur yells at it, and all the Ivysaur start getting mad! The Venusaur is about to hit Bulbasaur with its Vine Whip, but Ash blocks it just in time! Ash's Bulbasaur was fighting itself so it would not evolve!
Ash apologizes for coming to their festival, but Bulbasaur is his friend. He asks if they are mad that Bulbasaur will not evolve, they all nod. Ash says that if Bulbasaur does not want to, they cannot force it to! A bunch of pollen comes from the flower on Venusaur's back, and goes on the tree, causing it to grow more. Misty says its manipulating nature! If Bulbasaur evolves, it could do that, too! However, it still refuses.
Here comes team Rocket again, in their balloon they feel indestructible! All of a sudden, they start sucking up the plant Pokemon into a Bag. Pikachu Flies up and Ash's Bulbasaur catches it with it's Vine! Ash tells Bulbasaur to knock 'em out of the sky!
Bulbasaur tries using Razor Leaf, but it fails. James asks if they should get Bulbasaur, and Jessie and Meowth just laugh, saying Bulbasaur is a wimp. Bulbasaur shouts and the sun suddenly rises over the horizon! The sun's ray enters through the opening in the top of the bulb in Bulbasaur back. Dexter says its getting ready to use solar beam! Ash tells it to get ready. The bulb glows, and a huge, blue beam of energy shoots out, hitting the balloon! The balloon explodes, and Bulbasaur frees all the Ivysaur with Razor Leaf.
Team Rocket falls to the ground in the basket. All the Pokemon are mad. They hit Team Rocket all at once with their vines, and they go flying for the second time this episode! Ash says Bulbasaur did great! Venusaur agrees. It and Bulbasaur shake hands, or vines, or something!
Ash and the others leave. They notice that the garden has disappeared. They wave goodbye to Venusaur and Ivysaur. 
      