As this story begins Ash, Misty, Brock and last but not least our little yellow friend Pikachu find themselves in a vast desert, looking for some town Brock was talking about. It's already gotten dark when suddenly they head over a hill and arrive at Neon Town. Some guy bumps into Ash, and gets mad at him. Ash says he bumped into him. Brock asks Ash to apologize, Ash didn't think it existed. Ash bumps into this guy well. aheh bumped into ash and eh. the guy get really mad, but then Officer Jenny comes and tells them to break it up. Misty says that this Jenny sounds a bit edgy, too.
Suddenly Team Rocket show up and the guy who bumped into Ash bumps into James, and James gets mad, and the guy starts beating him up! Jessie bumps into a Very Large woman, who beats her up!
Ash, Misty and Brock come out of a hotel the next morning. And a whole bunch of people are up, and mad at each other. When do they ever sleep?
They go to a forest, where it is much quieter. Suddenly, a Jigglypuff hops onto a tree stump in a clearing! Misty says she's always wanted one! Ash says he thought she only like water Pokémon, but she says she wants this one, too. She tries sending Staryu, but Psyduck comes instead, why does this always happen! She yells at it, and puts it back into its Pokéball, and sends Staryu. With a Great powerful call HIYA, It uses Double Edge, and hits this small and timid Jigglypuff, who is knocked against a tree! It falls to the ground, and starts crying! Brock says it's a very strange Jigglypuff. Misty says Jigglypuff's can sing, and are really cute, why can't this one. She asks it to sing, but it looks mad. Brock says it probably can't sing!
Ash says that was why it didn't attack. Misty says she's sorry for attacking it. It hugs her. She says who would want a Jigglypuff that can't sing? It cries again. Ash says they'll help it learn how to sing!
Team Rocket is prying around and starts watching them. They want to use the Jigglypuff to put everyone in Neon Town to sleep so they can take whatever they want, one of there best plans ever! They out on these weird costumes, and get out microphones. Ash and the others see them. Some speakers start playing music. Team Rocket starts singing! Misty asks what their crummy plan is, and they say how they're going to use Jigglypuff to sing everyone in Neon Town to sleep.
Ash sends Bulbasaur, and James tells Weezing to use Poison Gas attack. Before it can, Bulbasaur spins it around with Vine Whip, so it uses it on Team Rocket! Misty, quite unhappy with Jigglypuff being unable to sing, starts to sing Do, Re, Mi, thing for Jigglypuff, and tells it to do the same. She says you have to control your breathing when you sing. Ash says she has a good singing voice. Pikachu tries singing, and Ash says he did well. Jigglypuff gets upset. It goes over and kicks Pikachu! Misty inflates a balloon, and tells Jigglypuff to so its lungs can get stronger. Misty puts the balloon in Jigglypuff's mouth, and it inflates Jigglypuff, who lets go, and goes flying!
Brock takes them to a tree covered with fruit. He says that the juice of this fruit can help make your throat feel better, and may help Jigglypuff to sing! Of course Brock being like a Brock is right, our little balloon type friend takes a bite, sure enough it starts singing! Pikachu jumps up and down, and Jigglypuff kicks it again! Misty asks Jigglypuff to sing. Pikachu seems upset or something, and they ask what's wrong. Misty asks Jigglypuff to sing again, and it does. It sounds good. Team rocket come back again, they realize they don't have to capture the Jigglypuff, just its VOICE! When Jigglypuff starts to sing everyone falls asleep! Jigglypuff stops to see this, and gets angry, puffing itself up a bit. It goes to Ash's backpack, and gets out some black markers. It then proceeds to draw all over their faces! It finds Team Rocket asleep. It tires hitting them to get them to wake up, but they won't! It then draws all their faces, quite funny!
Ash Misty and Brock wake up, and freak out when they see the marker. They rub it and Rub it, luckily for them it comes off. Jigglypuff is quite mad; Misty says it was probably because they feel asleep while it was singing. She says she's sorry. Brock says there might be some Pokémon who might not fall asleep.
Jigglypuff gets angry again. Brock says it must have really strong singing. Misty then gets the idea for it to try singing to Psyduck! It's too stupid to know if it should be awake or sleeping. They try, and Ash, Brock, Misty and Pikachu fall asleep. But Psyduck seems to be awake. Jigglypuff is still angry, though. Misty pokes Psyduck, who falls over. It fell asleep with its eyes open, yep, typical of Misty's Psyduck!
Team Rocket wakes up, and rubs the marker off their faces. They check to see if they recording Jigglypuff's singing. But all they recorded was them snoring, Team Rocket fail again!
Jigglypuff is very upset. Misty says it must be frustrating to have such a good voice, and no one can hear it! Brock has an idea; the people at Neon Town might be able to listen, since they never seem to sleep. This makes Team Rocket happy, since it's exactly what they wanted to do. With enemies like this, who needs friends Jessie and James Mutter!
Misty wonders where Jigglypuff should sing. Ash says maybe an outdoor stage. A truck pulls up next to them, and someone who is obviously Jessie in a disguise says they can use their stage,. The side of the truck opens, revealing it. Jigglypuff can sing from the stage!
Team Rocket says that now everyone will be put to sleep! They put earplugs in, so they won't.
Lights turn on in the stage, and a bunch of people stop to look. Jigglypuff starts singing. Everyone in the city hears, and they all fall asleep! Even Team Rocket, who's ears were apparently not plugged enough, The poor little Jigglypuff gets mad, and puffs up. Then it gets out the black marker! It then proceeds to draw on the face of everyone in the town!
Ash and the others look to see a bunch of people apologizing to each other. Brock says that maybe Jigglypuff's singing not only puts you to sleep, but you wake up feeling happier and nicer! The guy who bumped into Ash apologizes to him. Misty calls for Jigglypuff, but its gone. Team Rocket leaves the city with big, goofy looking smiles on their faces.
Ash says everyone looks so happy! Misty wasn't though, she wanted to catch that Jigglypuff! Ash says maybe it went to find someone who could listen to it sing. Then Jigglypuff comes, and runs after them. 

      
 