Ash, Misty, Brock and Pikachu find themselves in Dark City. To their surprise, no-one is around, but a kid runs out onto the street. His mother quickly withholds him, saying there might be Pokemon trainers around. For some reason she is afraid of Pokemon trainers. Soon, Ash and the others are being bombarded by rocks by someone. Pikachu shocks the kids on the roof who were throwing rocks at them, and they tell Ash to leave because he is a Pokemon trainer. Then a man walks over to Ash and the others and states that he doesn't want any trouble and takes them into his restaurant.
He then tells Ash that the city has two gyms. One is the Yas gym and the other is the Kas gym. The two gym's are having a gang war, and will hire any trainers to fight for them. A weird person in disguise is on the other side of the gym. Ash gets some food and tells Pikachu to put some ketchup on it, and Pikachu goes a bit overboard, and ends up covering it with ketchup! Then the man tells them how the best gym will be the official gym.
Then a battle begins outside. The Yas gym leader sends out Scyther, and the Kas gym leader sends out Electabuzz. Everyone is running for their lives, and the man tells Ash and the others to hide (while Pikachu is hugging the ketchup bottle)! In comes Team Rocket in Kas gym uniforms. The man says he can't give them any food because the Kas gym has not paid their bill in two years. So Jessie and James recite their motto, and send out Arbok and Weezing. The weird person in disguise is still there.
Ash sends out Pikachu, Misty sends out Starmie, and Brock sends out Vulpix. And then Ash and misty say "Vulpix?!?!?!?" and Vulpix breathes a huge blast of flame that sends Team Rocket flying out of the building. The owner of the restaurant thanks them.
A girl from the Yas gym comes in (who Brock blushes about, like always) and tells them that they are good Pokemon trainers. She then asks them if they will fight for the Yas gym, and also asks for their names. But Misty says that they should not say their real names. Ash looks down at Pikachu who is eating the Ketchup! He says his name is Tom Ato, Misty says her name is Anne Chovie, and Brock says that his name is Caesar Salad. The girl from the gym says that the Yas gym is worthy of becoming the official gym. Brock in a still in a trance at this girl jumps at the opportunity to help them.
She takes them to the Yas gym where they find the man with the Scyther. Suddenly, Scyther is told to attack them, and Pikachu had been eating the ketchup, which Scyther slashes and gets all over his eyes. He sees everything in red, and starts slashing at the man, but he brings it back. He says that he has never seen his Scyther so frightened, and Pikachu holds up the broken ketchup bottle, very upset.
The man says that he wants the Yas gym to be an official gym to make money. Then Ash says that he won't help them. The man now thinks that he is the enemy, and all the Pokemon start attacking him. Misty and Brock get him out, and they all leave. Misty wonders how the got escaped so easily with that Scyther, and Ash remembers the ketchup in its eyes. He then says "There might be a way to beat them!"
They have a plan. Yas and Kas are going to fight again, and Ash, Misty, Brock, and the people of the town set up barrels and lightning rods. They start fighting, and the barrels are let go, dropping red stuff all over the two gym leaders. Scyther and Electabuzz see the red and start attacking them! Ash then sends out Bulbasaur who dumps more red stuff on Electabuzz and Scyther. They then look at each other for a moment, then jump, only to hit into each other and pass out. The two leaders decide to join together to destroy the Ash and the others.
Ash's Pikachu uses thunder which travels to the lightning rods. It shocks all of the gym people, and they start to run, but someone yells "HOLD IT"! It is the weird person in disguise from the restaurant. The person holds out an official Pokemon League Inspector PokeBall. Then the person sends out a Chansey! The weird person is Nurse Joy! Brock sees her, and goes into a trance again! Joy explains that they can't become gyms if they use their Pokemon for street fighting. But she gives them another chance and tells Ash to help them to start again.
Ash explains how you have to be kind to your Pokemon, and when fighting, you have to try your best to win, but you don't want to actually beat the other person and then he figures out that he doesn't really know what he is trying to say. He says that they have to fix everything that was broken by them. They say "Thank you, Tom Ato". Then, Ash wishes that he had used a better name!
So, they start to rebuild the town. The three boys from the beginning said that Ash and his friends were great, and that they wanted to become Pokemon trainers - and they ask Pikachu for his Autograph!
Ash and his friends then leave and Ash says that those kids really appreciated Pikachu, and the kids say they will miss him. We then see team rocket who is covered in ketchup! Scyther and Electabuzz see this do I really need to explain what happens to Team Rocket!!!!
      
 