At the start we see that Ash, Misty and Brock have found a beautiful place in the forest to rest. Ash starts to swing on vines yelling, "Kanga Kangaskhan" but he runs into a tree. Pikachu runs over to Ash to see if he is all right and then it sees a baby Pikachu staring at it. Pikachu waves but the baby runs off. Pikachu and Ash run after it followed by Misty and Brock.
Eventually they get to a clearing and see a whole clan of wild Pikachu. Ash's Pikachu goes over and says hello but the wild Pikachu run away because they are scared of the new Pikachu. Ash's Pikachu is sad and starts to walk away. The baby Pikachu comes over and sniffs Ash's Pikachu and then shakes tails with it. All of the Pikachu come over to Ash's Pikachu and Brock says that they have accepted Pikachu into their clan. Ash runs over to them yelling, "I want to be part of the clan too" but he scares them all away.
Meanwhile the baby Pikachu is watching Ash and friends from a tree. It slips and falls into a river. Ash's Pikachu dives in after it and grabs it. All the other Pikachu are joining tails and making a big chain to save the two Pikachu. They start to hurry because they can see a big waterfall ahead. The leader attaches himself to a tree and the other Pikachu wade into the water to catch the endangered Pikachu. They catch them just before the waterfall and pull them to shore. Pikachu is laying on the ground unconscious so the baby Pikachu gives it a small electric shock. This wakes up Pikachu and all of the Pikachu raise Ash's Pikachu up on their tails like a hero.
Team Rocket is watching all of this from a tree and get the idea to catch all of the Pikachu to give to the Boss (Giovanni). The branch they are standing on breaks and they fall to the ground.
Next we see that it is night and all the Pikachu are sitting around the fire at night chanting the Pikachu Chant. Ash and friends watch and talk about how happy Pikachu is with his wild friends. Brock notes that it would be good for Pikachu to stay with his own kind. They sit around they're own fire eating and Misty notices that Ash is sad but he says it is nothing. Ash stays up while Misty and Brock sleep. He looks at the fire and sees Pikachu and then asks himself should Pikachu stay with its own kind.
The fire goes out and the Pikachu scream for help. Ash, Misty and Brock run over and see the Pikachu being captured in a net by Team Rocket. Misty tells Ash's Pikachu to break the net with its Thunder Shock but Team Rocket informs her that the net is electric proof. James shoots a net at Ash, Misty and Brock, which they get out of quite easily, and then start sailing away in their balloon with the Pikachu. Ash's Pikachu starts to gnaw at the net then all of the other Pikachu help him. Finally they gnaw through it and Ash, Misty and Brock hold out the net that they were captured in to catch the Pikachu as they jump from the balloon. Ash's Pikachu runs up the side of the balloon and Team Rocket see that all of the Pikachu have got away except one. They lunge at the lonesome Pikachu and miss hitting the gas valve for the balloon. The balloon starts to over inflate then Ash's Pikachu bites a hole in it blasting Team Rocket off again. Pikachu jumps off the balloon into Ash's arms and then runs over to the Pikachu clan.
Ash walks away and Misty and Brock run up to him. They can't believe Ash is leaving his Pikachu behind. Ash says it is for the best because it deserves to be with its kind. Ash starts running with Pikachu following behind him. Ash yells at Pikachu to stay behind. Brock comes up and says it is wrong to leave his Pikachu behind. Ash sees his Pikachu behind him with the clan of wild Pikachu. Ash's Pikachu shakes tails with the baby Pikachu. The other Pikachu start saying, "Pikachu" and Brock says they are cheering for Ash and his Pikachu. Pikachu jumps into Ash's arms and hugs him. Ash is touched and starts to cry. Looks like Pikachu will be loyal to Ash forever.
      
 