
Ash and the gang find their way to another town. Ash is wondering where the 
Pokemon center might be, so he asks a local woman. Brock has a crush on her, 
like every other woman, but Misty pulls him away telling him he should stop. 


Brock is later at a park filling up a pot with water at a park. A Nidorina 
comes by to drink but a girl runs after it and trips before the fountain. 
Brock catches her and ask if she is alright, the girl falls in love with 
Brock the way he does. Brock is actually scared of her, it seems he never 
expirenced a girl in love with him before. Ash, Misty and Brock, Misty 
noticing the girl loves Brock but Brock not liking her in anyway. Brock is 
still left speechless, so Misty pulls him out to have a little talk about the 
situation. Misty figures it out that Brock has no dating expirence and has no 
idea what to do! 


The girl takes them to her house and her father answers. They do the 
introductions, the girl being Temaku. It seems like Temaku is the daughter of 
a local Pokemon professor. Temaku invites them for dinner and some tea, guess 
what? Brock still is still nervous and has no idea what to do. So Misty again 
goes has a conversation with Brock. Temaku takes them for a walk around her 
house, talking about her Nidorina and Nidorino and some other Pokemon. 
That's when Team Rocket storms in to get a steal. They catch the Nidorina, 
Nidorino, Pikachu and the other Pokemon. Ash sends out Totodile to try to 
free them but Jesse sends out Arbok. The match ends within one hit, Totodile 
winning, and James sends out Weezing to use Smoke Screen. They try to take 
off. Everyone tries to find the three, but Temaku ties to find Brock and ends 
up getting caught in some rope. Misty sends out Poliwhirl to use Ice Beam to 
get rid of the smoke. Ironically, the stolen Pokemon are there, but Temaku is 
gone! 


Jesse and James pull up the rope to see their captures, only to find nothing. 
James pulls up Temaku however! Temaku loses balance and falls but James 
catches her, Temaku loving James now! James doesn't like this either. Jesse 
say they should just ditch her, but Temaku being a daughter of a Pokemon 
professor means... a lot of Pokemon. 


Temaku's father sets up a search squad, consisting of a half dozen guys and 
Ash, Misty, and Brock. They go to the forest, Ash sends out Noctowl to do an 
air search. The bird finds Team Rocket's balloon hovering around and reports 
back. 


Meanwhile, Jesse and James comes back to Temaku's house with Temaku. Her 
father thanks them and Jesse tells a fib about how they found the 
"terrorists" and both beat them up to save Temaku. But her father notices 
Meowth, Jesse just says they found it. Jesse and Meowth sneaks off to find 
the Pokemon, they hit the jackpot when they found a room with a shelf full of 
Pokemon. Jesse snatches them all in a bag, trying to escape, when Temaku's 
father tells them that Temaku cooked them a meal. Jesse and Meowth can't hand 
down a free meal and go right ahead. James is already in the dining room, 
acting much like Brock did. James constantly nudging Jesse for advice. 


Ash finds the balloon and has Noctowl make a hole through it. When the 
balloon crashes, it was just a fake! They know that they probably made it 
back to the house. 
The three burst right in while Jesse, James and Meowth are eating. Ash tells 
them that it's Team Rocket, but Jesse tries to tell them their just locals. 
Misty pulls off Jesse's diguise and she knows it's Jesse. 


Team Rocket makes a run for it, Ash and co. following. Ash sends out 
Chikorita and Jesse sends out Arbok. Chikorita just makes one tackle and 
Arbok goes down. James then sends Weezing to use Smoke Screen but Misty sends 
out Poliwhirl for another Ice beam. Then Misty has it do a Water Gun, James 
gets in the way but Temaku pushes James aside and gets hit herself, knocking 
her out. Brock goes up to her to see if she's alright. In the meantime Ash 
and Misty attack Weezing and Arbok sending them flying and landing on top of 
Jesse and James. Pikachu finishing them off with a Thunder Bolt. 


Temaku gets up and is actually well. Brock is glad, but she falls in love 
with the doctor who helped her. Brock is shocked, but sort of understands. 
They leave off to the next place, Brock upset. Misty tells her it's really no 
big deal, since after all, "There's plenty of fish in the sea". Brock cheers 
up and says he's going to find the right girl for him, and it's out there. 
Thanks to Xeno Lugia for writing This for us
 
         