
While walking near a valley, Ash and Pikachu are listening to their echos.  A Ledian flies by them while they enjoy the scenery.  Ash tries to catch up to it when a wind slows it down.  A man with a Pidgeotto and Ledian is testing it, but it can't beat the wind gust and falls.  Later at his cabin, everyone talks about the Ledian with him and his son.  The father has to leave for a trip and the others stay behind .  They're testing the Ledian again, but it still can't get past the wind gust.  When they get closer to Ledian, they find Team Rocket using a vacuum cleaner device and has Ledian trapped in the air flow.  Meowth reverses the flow and shots Ledian into them, then restores the flow to catch Pikachu and Togepi.  Tema Rocket takes off, but they hit some real winds before Ledian can get to them and get blow off.  Team Rocket end up on a set of spiked cliffs, but they still have Pikachu and Togepi.  James tries using Victreebel to get them lose, but they instead fall out the balloon along with Pikachu.  Then a spike falls loose and chase them down the hill, with everyone trapped on it as it slides off the cliff and onto a tall peak, trapping them all on top of the teetering rock.  Ash and the others finally arrive in the area, but a rockslide blocks the path.  The boy takes them to a rope ladder which they use to get up the opposite cliff.  While Ash, Misty and Brock try to climb up, a strong wind kicks up and it breaks the ladder's support loose and they fall down a ravine.  The boy quickly grabs the ladder to stop them from falling and Ledian trie sto pull them up.  Ash sends Noctowl to help also and they slowly start to rise out of the ravine.  Tired, everyone takes a rest after they get out.  Back at the teetering rock, Pikachu and Team Rocket sit quietly when James pulls out soem candy.  Jesse and James fight over it, starting the rock to tip.  They finally balance out, but then Togepiwalks off to the other side and unbalances them.  The rock starts to fall, but Togepi uses it's powers and they end up back on top, but Togepi has the candy this time.  The rock teeters as Pikachu tries to stop Togepi.  Ledian spots them and gets the others to try and help.  Bulbasaur is send out, but he can't reach the rock. Ledian ties a line over to them and the start to slide down, but a striong wind kicks up again and the rock which the rope is anchored to falls off.  Ledian manages to carry them arcoss safely.  Team Rocket then bags Pikachu and Togepi again.  Bulbasaur takes on Weezing, but can't find his in the smoke screen until a wind blows it away.  Suddenly, the boy's father shows up with his Pokemon and fights Victreebel and Weezing down.  They both send their Ledian to save Pikachu and Togepi, and Pikachu finishes the job.  Ash and Misty thank him for his help in saving Pikachu and Togepi, then they enjoy the scenery in the mountains.  Stars start to shine as sunset starts and the Ledian fly off toward the mountains for some exercise.  team Rocket end up right back on yet another teetering ledge.

      
         