
The gang sets off exploring the first island of the Whirl Cup for a while. Misty spots a Corsola and starts going off with her little speech about being the best water Pokemon trainer there is. Although she wants a Corsola, she can't because she doesn't have a boat. A man comes by and says it would be impossible either way, pointing out the whirlpools all around. He says he's the trainer, one of the people who live on the island. He invites them over to his place, which is across a river. As they get to the bridge (a rope bridge), no one really wants to go. Misty goes on first for some reason and everyone follows. A wind begins to blow and it spins the bridge around and throws them to the other side. 
Afterwards, the trainer calls out and a flock of Pidgey come towards him. The Pidgey don't look normal, they look chubbier. Team Rocket scopes them out from above, seeing that there could be another good catch for the day. 

When they reach the trainer's house, another Pidgey soars by them and lands on the roof. the trainer says that's his special Pidgey, Orville. When they come inside, there's a painting on the wall with a few Pidgey flying towards the sun. the trainer explains that the other Pidgey are overweight, he really doesn't have a clue why. They call up Proffessor Oak and Oak explains that it's probably just their eating habit. 

Later the trainer starts to explain about Orville. A while ago when Orville was still a fledgling, he really got interested in that painting. It also set his aim to fly to the sun, which the trainer seemed to understand. So he decided to train up Orville on flying, which started off to be a good start then improved. One day while the trainer was training with Orville, he decided to hanglide towards the ocean and see if Orville is capable. Orville managed for the first few minutes but couldn't keep up and started to lag down towards a whirlpool. Orville then noticed the sun, which reminded him of the painting and soon Orville was able to fly back up and with ease. 


Team Rocket, overhearing this, devised a plan that could get them both Orville and Pikachu. Seemed pretty simple. After the trainer was done, Team Rocket made the scene, disguised. They made a proposal that they could help Orville reach his goal, no charge, and they could monitor him from the balloon. The deal seemed to be too good to pass up so the trainer aggreed. Later that night, Meowth came over to where Orville was sleeping and started to talk with him, giving him a headset so that they could get communication during the flight tomorrow. 


The next day, everyone went inside the balloon and began the accent. James activated the rocket boosters and they went high very fast. After the short accent, Orville took off, going upwards. Meowth made relay conversations during the whole time. While they were watching Orville, Ash seemed to notice that he was going for something, a flock of Spearows! Orville went through them still going upwards and the Spearows started to give the chase, but no Spearow could catch up to him. Then a Fearow took charge and started to chase after Orville. Seeing that this might cause Orville to fall if he would be attacked, Ash had Pikachu give it a Thunderbolt. 


Soon they were pretty high up, everyone had to put on oxygen masks as they watched Orville make his way farther up. Meowth continued the conversation with Orville. Soon they were so high up that even Pikachu and Togepi who didn't need the masks needed them. Then they saw that Orville had reached a altitude so high, he was growing frost all over. Despite this, Orville kept aiming for the sun. Orville kept thinking as he went and then decided, it was over, he done it. Orville went down for a fast dive towards the ground then finally met altitude with the balloon. Everything looked alright, but except for the fact that Orville went through the balloon to break the fall. The balloon started to decend slowly and Orville was in dire need for some Oxygen, so Meowth grabbed a mask and put it on Orville. Orville soon woke up. Except now the hole got bigger and they were plunging towards the ground. The other Pidgey on the ground noticed that the balloon was falling fast, which would surely meet a nasty result unless something would happen. They all started to gather up under the balloon and started jumping up as if they were trying to fly. They managed to headbutt the basket, breaking the fall. 


Soon everything was alright for the trainer and Orville, Orville soon became a hero to the other Pidgeys. Meanwhile one of the rocket boosters started off automatically, sending Team Rocket off to where-ever they go. The gang says their goodbyes and heads off the first town. 


Team Rocket had crashed onto a cliff tree and are hanging. Wobbuffet comes out from one of the brush but they wonder where Meowth is. Meowth, sitting on the top branch, was talking to Orville about the moon and maybe he should aim for that. 


Thanks to Xeno Lugia for writing This for us 