
As our friends are walking up a hill, they see a nearby mountain covered in snow. As Brock rambles on how skiing would be the perfect sport for him, Ash spots a Chikorita sunbathing in a nearby field. Dexter: “Chikorita, the leaf Pokémon. Chikorita emit pleasant aromas from the leaf on its head and they love to sunbathe”. Ash first yells to warn everyone that he is about to capture it. Chikorita, now all riled up about the approaching battle prepares herself. Ash, Misty and Brock notice that this one must be tough. Ash, more determined then ever, selects Bulbasaur. Chikorita attacks but Bulbasaur replies with his vine whip and knocks Chikorita back. Chikorita recovers quickly and delivers her razor leaf attack but Bulbasaur uses his razor leaf attack to deflect it. Bulbasaur, now a little too confident, uses a tackle attack to knock Chikorita down. Ash, now thinking he has weakened Chikorita enough, throws a Pokéball at but she hits it back with the leaf upon her head. While Bulbasaur is distracted, Chikorita uses her vine whip to hit Bulbasaur on the head; Ash recalls him and selects Charizard (bit of a mismatch). Chikorita runs at Ash’s fire Pokémon but Charizard simply uses its foot to stop Chikorita’s pathetic attempt. As Charizard was about to use his flamethrower, Chikorita grabs hold of Charizard’s other foot with her vine whip and flips him over. Chikorita then uses razor leaf, but Charizard’s burns them with his flamethrower. Ash then tells Charizard to finish it off with a tackle attack but Chikorita hits him on the head with her vine whip attack and they both end up crashing head first into a nearby mountain. Charizard, a little dazed by his collision is recalled and Chikorita collapses from exhaustion. Ash, Brock and Misty quickly take her to the nearest Pokémon Center for treatment.
Team Rocket, having seen Ash’s battle with the Chikorita decide that this gutsy Pokémon is just what their team needs. After admitting Chikorita into the Pokémon Center, Nurse Joy advises Ash and his friends that she will be just fine. Apparently, the Chikorita around these parts are famous for their stubbornness and battling bigger and stronger Pokémon. Out of the blue, Team Rocket disguised as ambulance officers show up and steal Chikorita. Before escaping, they quickly introduce themselves and escape in an ambulance with the help of Weazing’s smoke screen. Ash and Pikachu give chase, and take a detour up the mountain to catch up to them. Ash jumps onto the roof and hitches a ride to Team Rocket’s small cabin in the snowy mountains. Ash, now pondering a way to rescue Chikorita realizes that he has left all of his Pokéballs at the Pokémon Center.
Meanwhile, inside the cabin, Team Rocket attempt to get Chikorita to sign some sought of employment form, but Ash interrupts and does his own version of Team Rocket’s motto (it is actually very good). After finishing, Ash then starts ditching snowballs at them and Pikachu and Chikorita make their escape. But once they are outside, Ash, Pikachu and Chikorita are captured in some kind of steel rings. Before Team Rocket has a chance to do anything, our friends, now bundled together make a run for it down the snowy mountain. But Ash slips and falls down, pulling Pikachu and Chikorita along with him. As they are rolling down the mountain, they quickly form a large snowball and crash into a large tree. Having been covered by snow, Team Rocket does not notice Ash at the base of the large tree.
Ash, Pikachu and Chikorita begin to trudge through the snow but they end up getting lost and Chikorita runs off in her own direction. Ash and Pikachu, noticing that it is snowing rather heavily, take cover in a cave. Ash now concerned about the well-being of Chikorita, reminisces about their battle and runs off in search of Chikorita. As he is running off he tells Pikachu to stay under cover and that he will be back soon. After finding Chikorita freezing and alone, Ash returns to the cave where they end up spending the night.
The next morning, Ash, Pikachu and Chikorita decide to head back to the Pokémon Center. But Team Rocket shows up and it appears as though Meowth has a new toy that fires snowballs. After one of the snowballs hits Ash in the head, Chikorita uses her razor leaf attack to break up the other remaining snowballs. Chikorita then uses vine whip to hit Meowth’s new toy and short-circuits it. Snowballs begin flying everywhere and Pikachu uses a thunderbolt attack to blow Team Rocket away.
Misty, Brock and Nurse Joy then come running up to Ash and once back at the Pokémon Center they all say goodbye to Nurse Joy and Chikorita. But upset at Ash’s leaving, Chikorita gives chase and decides to join Ash’s select group of pokémon

      
         