
Upon finally making their way out of the forest, Ash, Misty and Brock find themselves at the outskirts of a large city called Flowender. Wondering what they should do next, Misty suggests that they relax and do some sight seeing. Brock quickly jumps in and tells Misty that he cannot relax in a city full of girls that need his protection.
As Ash, Misty and Brock walk along the city streets, they stumble across a young lady who advises them to see the Pokémon Exhibition. The Pokémon Exhibition consists of a number of different Pokémon putting on live stage shows for entertainment during the Flowender Festival. Ash, looking a little perplexed, wonders if his Pokémon could put on a show. But Ash, not being your typical Pokémon trainer, did not mean a life stage show but rather a T.V. show!!!
The first show they go and see consists of a Flareon jumping through a ring of fire. The second performance Ash, Misty and Brock come across is an Oddish balancing on an Electrode. The next event that comes into view is a trainer surrounded by a number of Primeapes and next an Alakazam uses his powers to bend a large, novelty spoon. Ash then sees two strange looking Pokémon doing some kind of acrobatic dancing. Referring to his Pokédex, “Bellossom. The flower Pokémon. When these Pokémon move, their delicate petals rub together creating a pleasant sound. They are also known for their unique acrobatic dancing abilities”. The Bellossom’s trainer (who I might add is a very attractive lady) then instructs them to perform the “Loop-de-Loop” but something goes wrong and a Bellossom comes crushing down into Ash’s awaiting arms.
The trainer, who we later learn is called Bailey, thanks Ash for catching her Bellossom. But Ash, being modest, just says that it was a lucky catch. Bailey then proceeds to tell Ash that he was in the right place at the right time for them. Brock, not wishing these ramblings to continue, intercedes and says “Any place you are is the right place and the right time for me”. Misty, slight embarrassed drags Brock out of sight. While talking outside of Bailey’s trailer we learn that Bell and Bella (the two Bellossom) used to be able to perform the loop-de-loop but Bella is in a little bit of a slump and needs a little more practice.
The episode then cuts to Team Rocket. We see them strolling through the middle of the city and Jessie and James notice that they’re in the middle of a festival and get all excited. Jessie, in a blink of an eye, reappears in a Flamingo dancing costume, while James appears in a ballerina outfit (very funny). Wanting to show off their hidden dancing talent, they use Meowth to gather some money so that they can later perform. Meowth, a little surprised, wonders what he is supposed to do. James and Jessie quickly set up a stage and introduce their pint-sized friend as the one and only talking Meowth. However, Meowth gets stage fright, as he doesn’t know what he is supposed to say. Jessie gives him some jokes but they are a huge flop. James gives it a go but Meowth stuffs the joke up and the crowd quickly dissipates. Of course, now that they have no audience, Jessie and James become a little upset. But not to be pushed aside, Team Rocket ploughs through the middle of the festival in a great bit bulldozer. Ash jumps into the path of Team Rocket and is about to battle them when Bailey steps in and tells Ash that it is not his fight. Alakazam begins by using his powers to flip over the giant bulldozer. Jessie and James quickly recover and instruct Arbok and Victreebel to attack. However, Bell and Bella, using their dancing skills, are able to dodge all of Team Rockets attacks. Finally, Bell and Bella finish them off with sleep powder and Team Rocket runs off.
Team Rocket are then seen eating meatballs in a dirty alley and decide to steal all of the Pokémon at the exhibition the following day. Meanwhile, Bell, Bella, Pikachu and Togepi are dancing outside of Bailey’s trailer. Apparently, Bailey used to train her Pokémon to battle by teaching them how to dance. But she found that Bell and Bella were happier dancing then battling, thus she focused on the dancing aspect. Ashe then asks Bailey how Bell and Bella were able to defeat Team Rocket. Bailey is quick to point out the dancing and battling aren’t so different as dance steps are like a fighter’s footwork. The following day, Bailey teaches Pikachu a few dance steps and advises him to use the to get away from an opponent’s attacks. At the end of the work out, Bailey again tries the loop-de-loop but it is again unsuccessful and Bella gets very upset.
As the exhibition begins, we see the event’s organiser tied up below the stage floor. Team Rocket then proceeds to introduce the performers in today’s events. As the Pokémon make their way onto the stage, Meowth catches them in a huge net and carries them away in their hot-air balloon. Ash uses Heracross to launch Pikachu into the air. Pikachu lands on top of the balloon and uses a thunderbolt attack to bring the balloon crushing back down. Arbok and Victreebel then attack Pikachu, but Pikachu dodges Arbok’s poison sting attack with his ‘nifty’ new dance steps. Victreebel tries to use take down but it too is unsuccessful. Getting a little frustrated, Arbok and Victreebel attack together, but Pikachu jumps into the air and they crush into each other. Victreebel uses its wrap attack to grab hold of Pikachu and Arbok is instructed to use his vine attack. Bell and Bella quickly perform the loop-de-loop to kick Arbok in the head and knock him out. Pikachu then uses thunderbolt and shocks Victreebel. Bell and Bella then team up and use a tornado twister to send Team Rocket blasting off.
After realising that all the other Pokémon are fine, the exhibition continues and Bell and Bella finish off their routine with their amazing loop-de-loop. Their performance was a huge hit and the crowd gives them a standing ovation.

      
         