
While traveling to their next destination, the gang decides to take a rest in 
the clearing of the forest. Ash decides to release his Pokemon to play. 
Bayleef's affections towards Ash still exist, and she can't seem to firgure 
that Ash can't take her charging up to him. So upon releasing, she runs 
towards Ash and unintentionally tackles him. Bayleef is sort of confused but 
still doesn't understand that her size is bigger than it was and can now hurt everyone. Later they play a fetching game. 
Noctowl carries the stick some ways and Ash's other Pokemon follow. Obviously 
Bayleef is determined to win and she does so very easily, her size knocking 
the other Pokemon away. She then runs to Ash and again tackles him accidently 
sending Ash towards a nearby stream. She starts to get the picture now. 


Finally it's lunch time and Ash starts carry some food towards the table but 
he's momentarily distracted by Totodile, who seems to want some. Bayleef 
comes by as well, but she knows that if she runs to Ash, Ash will scold at 
her. (the cutscene of her thoughts was funny because of the drawing) So she 
walks up to Ash. Ash sees her and just scolds at Bayleef anyways, telling her 
the food is not for her, etc. Bayleef becomes sad and runs off without Ash 
knowing. When they eat, Ash notices that Bayleef is gone. 


Bayleef comes to a river and kicks a rock towards it in anger. Then she kicks 
another rock towards some brush, causing some Beedrills to come out and chase 
after her. She runs but she steps on a loose rock and falls into the river. 


An old woman is walking along the river with a Machoke carrying some flowers. 
She notices Bayleef on the shore, unconcious and decides to take her in. 
Bayleef wakes up, near a fireplace under a blanket. She looks around and the 
old woman comes in with Machoke, this time carrying a plate of hayashi rice 
sauce. (similar to curry, only not spicy and a different taste) Bayleef 
enjoys it and has a look around in the room, noticing a Bellossom and 
Skiploom. The old woman introduces them and they come friends. 


Meanwhile, Ash is searching around for Bayleef, Pikachu gets a scent and they 
follow it. They come up to the broken off part where Bayleef fell into the 
river. They walk further more down almost giving up, then Togepi notices the 
house. They go up to it and Ash knocks on the door. He tries a couple times 
and Misty sees there's a garden just around the house. They go over there, 
seeing the old lady, Machoke, Bellosom, Skiploom, and Bayleef. Ash goes up to 
Bayleef but Skiploom tackles Ash, preventing him from stepping on the 
flowers. The old lady goes up to them and exchange names. The old lady, 
Haruno, takes care of the garden along with the others. Ash explains he's 
trying to get Bayleef back and tries apologizing to her, but Bayleef refuses. 
Brock suggests the food trick, but Misty comments "How's that going to 
work?". Ash tries it anyways, carrying a plate of fruits. Bayleef still 
refuses Ash. 


Haruno and the gang sits down for some tea, Ash still trying to figure out a 
way to get Bayleef back. Seeing that Bayleef and Skiploom are watering the 
flowers, Ash tries again this time he's trying to help out Bayleef. Stuobborn 
as she is, again she still refuses. Ash starts to plead but She attacks Ash 
with a swift motion of her leaf. They are interupted when Team Rocket shows 
up in a huge Bayleef bot and chases them down. 


Team Rocket uses the Vine Whip attack to snag Skiploom, Bellosom, Pikachu and 
Bayleef. Haruno tries to talk them into stopping but she ends up in front of 
the robot's path. Machoke makes the move and gets her out of the way. Team 
Rocket then flees but Ash persues them. He finds a path to higher ground and 
the jumps onto the big robot. Landing on the leaf on the head. Team Rocket 
makes the robot simply just stomp to throw Ash around which is successful, 
but only resulting in throwing Ash to the container where the stolen Pokemon 
are. Ash sees in and tires to break it, but it's tempered glass. The others 
help and Ash starts to try to pry the container out. Ash starts to persuade 
Bayleef to help him out, but she won't accept. But after seeing how hard Ash 
is try to help her, she gets the idea that Ash does care. She starts to help 
in prying the container out by bashing on one side. The plan works and all 
the Pokemon become free. Ash tells Bayleef to use Razor Leaf to cut a side of 
it and Pikachu uses Thunderbolt to shock the inside. This knocks the huge bot 
down. 


They climb down the behemoth. However Team Rocket isn't going to give up, 
they use Vine Whip again, but Bayleef cuts the vines with Razor Leaf. Pikachu 
then delivers the Thunderbolt to blow them into the sky. 


Haruno gives the thanks and Bayleef learns a thing or two about her new self. 
The gang heads off to their next destination
.

Thanks to Xeno Lugia for writing This for us 

         