
The episode starts as usual, the gang walking across an open field. They 
notice a patter in the grass nearby them that looks like a circle with a X in 
the middle of it. What could be? All of a sudden a ball that has a leaf-like 
tail connected drops on them. They duck down thinking it's a bomb or 
something. (after all Team Rocket has a reputation of doing that) They look 
up wondering whats going on and Ash spots a balloon in the distance, it's 
shaped like Fearow with one pulling it! The balloon lands down next to them 
and a boy jumps out of it. He says his name is Skyler and he's training up for 
a balloon race that's pretty big. 


Skyler takes them over to a garage where a man is working on a balloon 
designs, this is Jyunza. Jyunza designs balloons after Pokemon for a race, as 
there is a picture gallery on the wall next to him with various 
Pokemon-shaped balloons. Jyunza gets an idea and sets up a Pikachu balloon 
for the gang to ride in and train for the race themselves. They take off and 
do a few check-ups, before letting out a flying Pokemon to drag the balloon 
faster. 

Ash sends out Noctowl while Skyler uses his Fearow. Noctowl helps to make the 
balloon go faster but he goes too fast and causes the balloon the tilt. 
Jyunza tells them to slow down a bit and Noctowl does so. 


Seems like Team Rocket as usual is spying on them. Jesse and James don't 
really care about what's happening but Meowth comes by with the race 
phamplet, which he explains first place winner gets a better burner for their 
balloon. Jesse and James aren't too thrilled but Meowth seems crazy just for 
this race. Late at night before the race, Jesse and James sneak by in the 
ballon start area where all the balloons are...hmm... 


The next day the race begins and dozens of contestents are ready to go, Team 
Rocket makes the last-minute entry using their own ballon. As they start off, 
something's wrong. Most of the balloons mysteriously pop and some of the 
baskets fall out. Looks like Jesse and James sabotaged the balloons that 
night. Only a few balloons including Ash's and Skyler's are left standing. 
Meowth yells at them because he doesn't want to cheat, but James ignores him 
and sends out Weezing to use Smoke Screen. The smoke knocks out the all but 
three balloons: Ash, Skyler and one other. Meowth yells at James but Jesse 
shrugs and uses Arbok shoot out some Poison Pins. Ash and Skyler dodges the 
fire of pins but the other racer doesnt and ends up falling down as well. 
Meowth, fed up, slashes them both, but Jesse and James don't like to play 
honest so they just tie up Meowth so they wouldn't have to worry about him so 
much. 


Seems like a storm is coming up ahead, Team Rocket doesn't care, they already 
have something. James presses a button and a jet engine appears under the 
balloon basket and they zip off. Ash and Skyler are trying hard to get through 
the storm, but Ash's balloon's burner shorts out and it won't work. Ash gets 
the idea and sends out Cyndaquil to do the job. However all doesn't seem to 
go well, they are headed straight into a mesa! Ash tells Noctowl to pull up 
as best he can as well as Cyndaquil using a powerful Flamethrower to heat up 
the balloon. They make it and head straight up above the clouds. 


Meanwhile Team Rocket zips out of the storm but their celebration is cut 
short when they see Ash and Skyler break through as well. James presses 
another button and the engine becomes a missle launcher. James fires a few 
vollies towards Ash's balloon. The balloon doesn't get hit but Cyndaquil gets 
knocekd back, Ash dashing to save him from falling, but another missle 
explodes near Ash. Ash collaspes into the basket, his shoulder hurt. 
Cyndaquil hops back up to the burner and Pikachu gets mad and wants to fight. 
However James justs simply uses the jet engine to flee away. Ash gets the 
idea and tells Noctowl to help Pikachu get to Team Rocket. So Noctowl let's 
go of the rope and Pikachu hops on, soon flying towards Team Rocket's 
balloon. James uses the missles again to fend off Noctowl but Noctowl can 
shake the missles off for long. Skyler tells his Fearow to go help and 
distract Team Rocket and Fearow goes off. Fearow does distract them for a 
while and Pikachu comes in and releases a Thunderbolt to Team Rocket, 
exploding the balloon and sending them off to wherever. 


Ash and Skyler get to the target area and they toss the ball to the target, 
both getting bull-eyes. However there seems to be a slight problem, there's 
only one balloon burner and two winners. Ash tells Skyler he should take the 
prize, after all, Ash doesn't go by balloon anyways. They soon depart for 
their next destination... 

Thanks to Xeno Lugia for writing This for us 