
Ash and co. have finally arrived in Goldenrod City, where Ash plans on
challenging the Gym Leader for a Plain Badge. The group stops off at
the Pokémon Center, and Misty spots a group of kids, huddled around
a book on fortune telling. She asks them to please let her see it (in her
usual way, which is "Gimmee! Gimmee! Gimmee!"), and they tell her to
get her own copy, they're giving them away at the local breeding center. 
Misty drags Ash and Brock to the breeding center, and speaks to the
owners, a nice old man, and a nice old woman. They give her a copy of
the fortune telling book, and return to checking Pokémon guests
into their center. 
Later, while walking through the Nature Park, Misty reads her friends
their horoscopes. Ash is disappointed to learn that his zodiac Pokémon
is a pitiful Bellsprout. Brock is an Onix, which suits him just fine.
Misty then looks up her own birthday, hoping she'll end up with a cute
Pokémon like Vaporeon for her zodiac. Then she finds out she's a
Gyarados...which upsets her to no end, and she explodes, crying, "I'm
nothing like Gyarados!!!" Ash whispers aside to Brock that she's
performing her Dragon Rage attack. ^_^; 
Team Rocket chooses that rather inopportune moment to attack the kids,
and Misty's so angry, she hurls the fortune telling book at them,
sending them flying! 
After shaking off their injuries, the Rockets begin to page through the
book. Jessie is delighted to learn that she's an Eevee. Meowth asks for
his zodiac, and Jessie snatches the book away from him, saying that he's
already a Pokémon, so he doesn't need a Pokémon zodiac as well.
Then she looks up James' zodiac, and learns that he's a Moltres...which
causes her to sweatdrop violently, because James is nothing like Moltres!
She reads aloud Moltres' attributes, and James decides that if he's
Moltres he's Moltres; and like the fire bird, he'll rise from the ashes
of his defeats, and become a stronger person. 
So saying, he dubs himself "Moltres-James," and storms into the breeding
center, proclaiming, "All of these Pokémon will become the property
of Moltres-James!" The old lady responds by hurling him up against a wall. 
Jessie and Meowth are flabbergasted, and cry, "Who are you people?!?"
The old lady and the old man remove their costumes, revealing themselves
to be Butch and Cassidy! They're quick to tie up the other three Rockets,
and lock them up in the storeroom, where they can't do anything foolish,
like switch sides and alert the cops. Moltres-James won't stand for that
sort of treatment, he breaks through the ropes, and busts through the
storeroom door, leaving Jessie and Meowth in shock. Annoyed by their
hesitance to act, he picks them up roughly, and carries them to safety. 
Around the same time, Misty storms back to the breeding center, to demand
an explanation for her Gyarados zodiac. She and her friends find Butch
and Cassidy standing amidst a store of stolen Pokémon, in full
Rocket garb. Naturally, a fight ensues. Misty, screaming at them for
distributing phony fortune telling books, sends out Staryu; Ash uses
Totodile. Butch and Cassidy send out Primeape and Raticate,
who start beating up on Ash and Misty's Pokémon. 
Just then, the other Rockets reappear, James dressed in a Moltres
costume. "Stand aside, little brats--this is a job for Moltres-James!"
James sends out Victreebel, who tries to glomp him...but when it does,
it receives a kick upside the head! James tells Victreebel that it may
have gotten away with trying to eat him before, but he's Moltres-James
now, and Moltres-James don't play that.Victreebel nods shakily,
and proceeds to beat up Primeape and Raticate. James laughs, and tells
the other Rockets that they'll never defeat him, because he's Moltres
James! 
Butch scowls, and cries, "That zodiac was fake, you moron!" James is
instantly deflated, Victreebel loses the battle, and he, Jessie, and
Meowth are sent rocketing off into the sky. As he's soaring through the
air in his burning costume, James exclaims that he really is a
fire bird. Jessie and Meowth just sigh. 
Ash and co. finish off Butch and Cassidy, and as they're being carted off
to jail, Officer Jenny presents Misty with a real Pokémon Fortune
Telling book. The Rockets find a legit copy as well, but we don't get to
hear what their true zodiacs are. 

      
         