Ash and the gang are crossing the sea on Lapras when Ash decides that he is hungary. Pikachu spots and island up ahead and Ash tells Lapras to head to the island.
When they land on the island Pikachu and Togepi go off to look around. While standing on the beach Ash spots a Farfetched coming towards him and soon a flock of them fly by, Pikachu and Togepi come out of the bush carrying fruit but when Ash and Misty try it its all sour.

They all walk into the forest and Tracey finds the same fruit but ripe, Ash tries some and finds it more pleasnt.
Ash decides to stay the day on the island to have a day off so they all let out their Pokémon but they all seem to be afraid of Traceys new Scyther, but when Togepi goes up to him and rubs against Scythers leg the rest seem happy...
Except Charizard and when Ash tries to get Charizard to meet Scyther he uses flamethrower in Ash's face.
Jessie and James who are on the other side of the island relaxing when they see Togepi float passed on Marill's tail.They jump up and figure out that Ash and co are on the island too.When sneaking up on them they figure out a plan to catch all of their Pokémon.

When Ash and co get back from picking fruit Snorlax and Scyther are standing above a pile of fruit just after Ash asks whats wrong Jigglypuff jumps out of the fruit and sings.
After wakeing up They all sit down to have some dinner Tracey brings down some Fruit sandwiches when Snorlax wakes up and eats all of them in one bite.

Ash, Misty, Squirtle and Bulbasaur are all doing the dishes and Tracey wonders why Snorlax didnt eat as much as it used to. He figures out that it was because it has been living in its Pokéball and wont use as much energy as normally.
Everyone is asleep when Pikachu wakes up to find Ash missing, he runs to the beach to find Ash sitting on a rock comparing the GS ball to an ordaniry Pokéball.He then has a flash back of his last two gym battles.Team rocket are then on the otherside of the bay using James Victrebell to do Sleep Powder on the Ash and company.Scyther and Charizard notice the sleep powder but fall asleep Team Rocket fire one of their special rockets over which deploys a lot of suction cups.Each cup hits a Pokémon and Jessie and Meowth start hauling them over but as they hooked Snorlax too and he was too heavy and they cant pull any further.

Scyther then comes and chops the rope and the rest of them wake up. Ash and Pikachu come running over and see Team Rocket.They fire a grappling hook over towards them and come sliding down on it while doing the TR motto but they arent paying attention and crash into a tree.Meowths comes down and uses Scratch getting them up instantly.They send out Weezing and Arbok and Asn uses Pikachu, Squirtle and Bulbasaur each doing an Element attack on them.Charizard then does Flamethrower and Scyther then uses a Skull Bash to send Team Rocket blasting off again!.
Scyther and Charizard then have a stare down but both walk away.The next day Ash and Co leave the island on lapras.While Team Rocket are stuck on a small island when a group of wild Farfetched attack them while they leap of the island. 



      
      