
The Pichu bros wake up on top of a nearby building. They yawn and stretch out. One of them hears someone calling and they run off to find it. Nearby, a Smoochum is applying some much needed makeup. It hears the call and rushes off too. Soon, a Wooper, Magby, and Teddiursa join in the rush. 
The source of the calling is an Azumarill. It happily calls out while holding a tray of acorns. The Pokemon line up to get some, but Teddiursa trips, causing a domino fall to Azumarill. It falls also and the acorns go tumbling down the hill. They all freak out and prepare to retrieve the nuts when a car drives by, smashing them all. The non-haired Pichu bro becomes mad and yells at Teddiursa. It then folds its arms and gives it a mean look. All the Pokemon begin to laugh at how tough it's trying to act.
Meanwhile, Meowth enjoys a nice cat nap at the top room of a large building. A weird system of contraptions pours him a cup of coffee and he wakes up. He puts a bath robe on and looks out the window, exclaiming that he has this whole city to enjoy! The narrator then reminds him of his hunger, and Meowth wonders what he'll eat. He then remembers the picnic basket he packed and sits in a chair. He takes off his robe and begins to talk with an imaginary maid who he switches between. After the "maid" gets his picnic basket, he decides to take a stroll to the park.
He walks along an alley without a care in the world. Teddiursa also walks down this alley, a little bummed at the loss of the acorn. It then smells Meowth picnic basket and forgets all about it. Meowth makes it to the edge of the alley that overlooks the city. He daydreams about the people placing a giant Meowth statue in the middle, and soon realizes Teddirusa is sniffing his food. He yells at it, telling it to go away and it can't have any. Teddiursa sadly shoves off. 
As Meowth hugs his precious picnic basket, Smoochum comes running it with an identical one. It accidentally bumps into him and the two baskets are thrown together. Smoochum yells to Meowth, telling it to watch where he's going. It then grabs a basket and leaves. Meowth is a little aggravated, and he is soon in tears when he discovers his basket is just a bunch of cosmetics. The scene rewinds to show how the baskets must've switched, and Meowth rushes off to find Smoochum.
Smoochum happily skips through an alley when Meowth comes racing behind it. Thinking Meowth is insane, Smoochum rushes off as fast as it can. Meowth chases it, but it ducks under a hole in a fence. Meowth crashes into it and falls down. Little Torchics run around his dazed head. Smoochum enters the tire playground from the third mini movie where the Pichu bros and the other Pokemon are playing. It explains the situation to them, and Meowth enters, exclaiming that he wants that basket. Smoochum throws it to one of the Pichu and it rushes up the slide.
Meowth chases it up there, and the Pichu is having trouble climbing higher. It then throws the basket to Magby, who rushes off. Meowth jumps down and psychotically follows. After some running, Magby tosses the basket to the other Pichu. It runs from Meowth, but soon trips. Meowth laughs, exclaiming that he finally has his basket. Wooper then water guns it over a fence. Meowth is now insane with anger and rushes to get it, dropping Smoochum's basket. The Pokemon see this and Smoochum recalls the mix up. The haired Pichu bro then says they should go help out Meowth.
In the alley just outside the fence, Meowth is reunited with his picnic basket. He hugs it passionately, and then starts to walk off. He then accidentally steps on a sleeping Houndour's head and freezes with fear. The Pokemon lunges and Meowth runs for his life; dropping the basket in the process. 
Meanwhile, Teddiursa stares at a cake in a shop window; obviously very hungry. Suddenly, the picnic basket lands on its head and it spies the food inside. The Pichu bros and their friends listen to Meowth get his rear end kicked from a hole in the fence. He appears seconds later, beaten and injured. Teddiursa then shows up and Meowth angrily grabs the picnic basket, but finds everything has been eaten! He sighs as Teddiursa explains how good the food was. He then collapses on the ground as the scene rises to the sky.




It's another beautiful day in the big city as Meowth happily strolls down the street. He looks around at the many food posters and remembers his picnic basket. He gets a little angry, and then decides he wants a pizza. He gets a job as a pizza delivery boy, and the owner hands him some pizzas. He then gets a plan to get the job done quicker.
Meowth goes to the tire playground and the Pokemon gather round. Teddiursa smells the pizzas and tries to grab one, but Meowth tells it to back off. He then tells them that when he gets done with his deliveries, they can all enjoy some pizza, and as planned, the Pokemon offer to help. Meowth grins and hands each Pokemon an address and a pizza. The Pichu bros fight over who gets to carry their pizza, but the haired one ends up winning. Meowth laughs out loud, exclaiming that with the Pokemon delivering the pizzas, he won't have too.
Smoochum runs down the street carrying its pizza. It turns a corner to find the road is blocked. Suddenly, a sewer erupts in front of it and a Squirtle wearing the same shades as Ash's jumps out. Two more erupt form sewers surrounding Smoochum. The leader explains that it has entered their territory. Smoochum tries to run, but they surround it and water gun it to death. Smoochum goes flying sky high and is about to fall on Wooper. Wooper notices this and tries to water gun it away, but it doesn't work. Both Pokemon lay on the ground stunned with their now soggy pizzas next to them.
Teddirusa strolls down the street as well. It then realizes it's hungry and looks around to make sure no one is looking. It then sits by some trash cans and prepares to chow down, but a Snorlax sleeping in the alley rolls over on top of it! Meanwhile, the Pichu bros are still delivering their pizza. 
They take a short cut through an alley and find a fence blocking their way. The other Pichu snatches the pizza from the other and jumps on a board. The box on the other end flies up then crashes back down, sending Pichu sailing over the fence. It thinks it has landed safely, but it landed right on Houndour's head! It runs off as the other Pichu makes it over the fence. It calls to its brother and the two run as fast as they can as the Houndour gives chase. 
Magby is looking at its address, wondering how to get there. The Pichu bros suddenly smash into it, sending both their pizzas flying. The pizzas smack into Houndour but it keeps coming. Magby is now aggravated, and it prepares a flamethrower. The Pichu bros dodge and the attack smashes Houndour right in the face, making a huge explosion. Houndour sits there stunned, burnt to a crisp. It then yelps and rushes off. 
The Pokemon return to Meowth with their destroyed pizzas. Meowth freaks out, knowing he'll never get his pizza now. He returns to the pizza parlor, and in turn is fired. The Pokemon watch as the owner kicks him out. He then gets a job cleaning the park. The Pichu bros peek out from behind a tree, and Meowth just think he's seeing things. All the Pokemon then appear, and Meowth freaks out, telling them to leave before they cause trouble again. The Pokemon all pull out brooms and offer to do his work for him.
Meowth lounges on a bench, happy that he can relax. The Pichu bros dust a window when one yawns. They talk for a little bit, and then head away from the window. Meowth is no sipping coffee and relaxing further. He then spots the Pichu bros on a statue of a crescent moon on a globe. The moon is held from falling off by strings, but it begins to rock back and forth at the Pichu's cleaning. 
Meowth rushes over there and one jumps off, exclaiming that they are almost done. Meowth notices the other Pichu still on and sees the ropes break on the opposite side of it. He lunges and grabs them before the moon falls off. He now hangs dangling from the ropes as the crescent moon teeters back and forth. The Pichu flies off and sparks a bit. Wooper's water gun goes haywire, and it smashes Magby in the face. It gets mad again and uses flamethrower, striking the ropes and burning them away. The crescent moon falls into some pillars, which in turn create a domino effect. Pillar after pillar falls over; the last smashing into the pool and breaking the fountain. The area floods and the Pokemon are all washed away. The scene zooms out to show that this park was actually on top of a building; which is now leaking water down its sides. 
Meowth then gets the boot from that job too. He now sits in a nearby park, very depressed. The Pokemon group shows up again and he freaks out, but they just hold out a bunch of acorns for him. Meowth is in tears at how they still want to help him and he chows down on one. As soon as he puts it in his mouth, Meowth realizes acorns are sick. He still wants to be polite and pretends he likes them. He takes another one and reluctantly puts it in. The Pokemon all happily watch him eat as the scene rises.



Special Thanks to GoldenNoctowl77 for writing This for us

     
      